[Music]
hi it's Barney for BBC good food and
here I'm going to show you how to
prepare a butternut squash butternut
squash is one of our favorite
ingredients it's versatile it's healthy
it's seasonal it's a bit of a pain to
prepare cuz it's big and it's heavy and
it rolls around on your chopping board
so the easiest way to prepare it is it
comes in two sections there's a bulbous
section at the end and then there's the
long bit is to take the top and bottom
off like so and then we're going to
separate the two sections so you just
want to cut where the sections meet so
now we've got a couple of options and
option number one which is probably
easiest option is we can just use a
peeler to peel off this thick flesh so
simply use a swivel blade Peter
or if you didn't have a peeler or you
want to just use your knife you can
simply cut the skin off it's a bit
trickier and to be honest I'll probably
use the peeler so now the bottom end of
the butternut squash again I'm just
gonna use a peeler on it just to peel
round now what we want to do is want to
have the bottom section because there's
seeds in the middle so cut that in half
let me just going to scoop out the seeds
[Music]
so that's how squash peeled and seeded
now depending on the recipe or how
you're going to cook the squash this
will determine how you're going to chop
it so if you want wedges for roasting
for like a nice big salad and you simply
take the bottom half and these wedges
can also be cut into chunks for roasting
or for soups or for mashes now with the
top half or with anything around when
you start chopping it you want to square
it off so it doesn't roll around on the
chopping board so to do that you want to
take the sides off it's just a nice big
slice off the side when you take all
four sides off and then we're just going
to chop the side into chunks
so now you've got the square bit which
again you can cut into chunks just by
baking big chunky chips and then cutting
those into squares
that's a squash chopped now a couple of
tips it is a vegetable with the tough
skin so if you want to soften the skin
to make it easier to handle you can pop
it in the microwave for two to three
minutes or if you're doing a recipe
which is slow roasted the skins
perfectly edible so you don't have to
peel it at all
and those are just a couple of ways
preparing butternut squash
[Music]